# Recourse
This is a financial planning system that generates custom plans to help users achieve their financial goals, such as getting a loan approval from a bank. It uses data analysis and machine learning techniques to provide tailored solutions.

#### Description `Short Instruction - Running the App`
To run the code, you can follow these instructions:

1. clone the repository by command: ``` git clone https://github.com/delaramesfahani/Recourse.git ```
2. n the root directory of the application you can serve the app with the following commands:
- For installing the node package: ``` npm i ```
- To serve the application on port http://localhost:5001: ``` node server.js ```
### JSON File: `initData.json`

The initData.json file encompasses an array of objects, where each object serves as a data entry. Within the file, there are two distinct types of objects: Actionable and Non-Actionable features. These types categorize the nature of the features and define the user's ability to modify their values.

Actionable features encompass the information that users can modify, such as details pertaining to their bank account. These features provide the flexibility for users to update and alter the values as needed.

On the other hand, Non-Actionable features consist of attributes that remain unchangeable by the user, including their age. These features are inherently fixed and cannot be modified through user interaction.

The presence of both Actionable and Non-Actionable features within the initData.json file allows for the management of dynamic and static user data, providing a comprehensive representation of the dataset.

Here's an example of the file structure:



```json
[
   {
       "name" : "Username",
       "value" : "joe",
       "actionable" : false
   },
   {
       "name" : "Age",
       "value" : "30",
       "actionable" : false
   },
   {
       "name" : "Annual income",
       "value" : 61000,
       "actionable" : true
   }
]

```

#### File structure: `initData.json`

The Json file can easily accommodate different data format and types. And additional fields can added as needed without affecting compatibility with existing datasets.

The following fields are used in the initData.json file:

- Name (string): represents a name of the entry feature.
- Value (number or string): stores the value of the feature.
- Actionable (boolean) : represent this fact that this feature is flexible to modify by user or not.

Actionable features are denoted by the attribute "actionable": true. These features serve as essential inputs for the AI algorithm to propose a customized plan tailored to the user's specific needs and requirements. Users have the capability to modify the values associated with these features, allowing for dynamic adjustments to be incorporated into the plan.

### JSON file: `RecoursePlan.json`

The RecoursePlan.json file is a JSON file generated by the AI model based on the initial information. This file serves as a resource plan that contains the following key components:

- UserId: A unique identifier assigned to each user.
- PlanId: An identifier assigned to each resource plan.
- features: An array that includes the resources recommended by the AI model.
- UserPreferences: Initially, the user preferences in the resource plan are empty (null). These preferences can be filled when it is rated by the user, ranging from terrible to great, as the user interacts with the resources.

 Here's an example of the file structure:

```json
{
   "userId": "#",
   "planId": "01",
   "features" : [{
       "name" : "FICO score",
       "valueBefore": 600,
       "valueAfter": 800,
       "valueDiff": 200,
       "valueInc": true,
       "type": "numeric"
      },
      {
      "name" : "Credit utilisation",
      "valueBefore": 90.1,
      "valueAfter": 63.5,
      "valueDiff": 26,
      "valueInc": false,
      "type": "numeric"
      },
      {
      "name" : "Loan amount",
      "valueBefore": "25K",
      "valueAfter": "40K",
      "valueDiff": "15K",
      "valueInc": true,
      "type": "string"
      }], 


     "overalSatisfication": null,
     "UserPreferences": {}   
}
```
